boilerplate from https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-npm/
--> removed git stuff

- URL to edit: https://glitch.com/edit/#!/fcc-node-express-dw
- URL to fCC test: https://fcc-node-express-dw.glitch.me

**Node.js** is a JavaScript tool that allows developers to write backend (server-side) programs in JavaScript. Node.js comes with a handful of built-in modules—small, independent programs—that help facilitate this purpose. Some of the core modules include:

- HTTP: a module that acts as a server
- File System: a module that reads and modifies files
- Path: a module for working with directory and file paths
- Assertion Testing: a module that checks code against prescribed constraints

**Express**, while not included with Node.js, is another module often used with it. Express runs between the server created by Node.js and the frontend pages of a web application. Express also handles an application's routing. Routing directs users to the correct page based on their interaction with the application.
The Express App object has several methods, and we will learn many of them in these challenges. One fundamental method is `app.listen(port)`. It tells your server to listen on a given port, putting it in running state.

In Express, routes takes the following structure: `app.METHOD(PATH, HANDLER)`. **METHOD** is an http method in lowercase. **PATH** is a relative path on the server (it can be a string, or even a regular expression). **HANDLER** is a function that Express calls when the route is matched. NOTE: Express evaluates the routes from top to bottom. It only executes the handler for the first match.

Handlers take the form `function(req, res) {...}`, where **req** is the request object, and **res** is the response object.

We can respond with a file using the method `res.sendFile(path)`. You can put it inside the `app.get('/', ...)` route handler. Behind the scenes this method will set the appropriate headers to instruct your browser on how to handle the file you want to send, according to its type. Then it will read and send the file. This method needs an absolute file path. We recommend you to use the Node global variable `__dirname` to calculate the path.

An HTML server usually has one or more directories that are accessible by the user. You can place there the static assets needed by your application (stylesheets, scripts, images). In Express you can put in place this functionality using the middleware `express.static(path)`, where the parameter is the absolute path of the folder containing the assets. If you don’t know what a middleware is, don’t worry. We’ll discuss about it later in details. Basically middlewares are functions that intercept route handlers, adding some kind of information. A middleware needs to be mounted using the method `app.use(path, middlewareFunction)`. The first path argument is optional. If you don’t pass it, the middleware will be executed for all the requests.

While an **HTML server** serves (you guessed it!) HTML, an **API** serves data. A **REST** (REpresentational State Transfer) API allows data exchange in a simple way, without the need for clients to know any detail about the server. The client only needs to know where the resource is (the URL), and the action it wants to perform on it (the verb). The **GET** verb is used when you are fetching some information, without modifying anything. These days, the preferred data format for moving information around the web is JSON. Simply put, JSON is a convenient way to represent a JavaScript object as a string, so it can be easily transmitted.

Let's create a simple **API** by creating a route that responds with JSON at the path `/json`. You can do it as usual, with the `app.get()` method. Inside the route handler use the method `res.json()`, passing in an object as an argument. This method closes the request-response loop, returning the data. Behind the scenes it converts a valid JavaScript object into a string, then sets the appropriate headers to tell your browser that you are serving JSON, and sends the data back. A valid object has the usual structure `{key: data}`. Data can ba a number, a string, a nested object or an array. Data can also be a variable or the result of a function call; in which case it will be evaluated before being converted into a string.

The `.env` file is a hidden file that is used to pass environment variables to your application. This file is secret, no one but you can access it, and it can be used to store data that you want to keep private or hidden. For example, you can store API keys from external services or your database URI. You can also use it to store configuration options. By setting configuration options, you can change the behavior of your application, without the need to rewrite some code.
The environment variables are accessible from the app as `process.env.VAR_NAME`. The `process.env` object is a global Node object, and variables are passed as strings. By convention, the variable names are all uppercase, with words separated by an underscore. The `.env` is a shell file, so you don’t need to wrap names or values in quotes. It is also important to note that there cannot be space around the equals sign when you are assigning values to your variables, e.g. `VAR_NAME=value`. Usually, you will put each variable definition on a separate line.

**Middleware functions** are functions that take 3 arguments: the request object, the response object, and the next function in the application’s request-response cycle. These functions execute some code that can have side effects on the app, and usually add informations to the request or response objects. They can also end the cycle sending the response, when some condition is met. If they don’t send the response, when they are done they start the execution of the next function in the stack. This is triggered calling the 3rd argument `next()`.

Middleware can be mounted at a specific route using `app.METHOD(path, middlewareFunction)`. Middleware can also be chained inside route definition. This approach is useful to split the server operations into smaller units. That leads to a better app structure, and the possibility to reuse code in different places. This approach can also be used to perform some validation on the data. At each point of the middleware stack you can block the execution of the current chain and pass control to functions specifically designed to handle errors. Or you can pass control to the next matching route, to handle special cases.

When building an API, we have to allow users to communicate to us what they want to get from our service. For example, if the client is requesting information about a user stored in the database, they need a way to let us know which user they're interested in. One possible way to achieve this result is by using route parameters. **Route parameters** are named segments of the URL, delimited by slashes (/). Each segment captures the value of the part of the URL which matches its position. The captured values can be found in the `req.params` object.

Another common way to get input from the client is by encoding the data after the route path, using a **query string**. The query string is delimited by a question mark (?), and includes `field=value` couples. Each couple is separated by an ampersand (&). Express can parse the data from the query string, and populate the object `req.query`. Some characters cannot be in URLs, they have to be encoded in a different format before you can send them. If you use the API from JavaScript, you can use specific methods to encode/decode these characters.
