- **Principle 1 - The Redux store is the single source of truth when it comes to application state.** In Redux, there is a single state object that's responsible for the entire state of your application. This means if you had a React app with ten components, and each component had its own local state, the entire state of your app would be defined by a single state object housed in the Redux store. This is the first important principle to understand when learning Redux: the Redux store is the single source of truth when it comes to application state. This also means that any time any piece of your app wants to update state, it must do so through the Redux store. The unidirectional data flow makes it easier to track state management in your app.

- **Principle 2 - Never Mutate State** Another key principle in Redux is that state is read-only. In other words, the reducer function must always return a new copy of state and never modify state directly. If you took a snapshot of the state of a Redux app over time, you would see something like state 1, state 2, state 3,state 4, ... and so on where each state may be similar to the last, but each is a distinct piece of data. This immutability, in fact, is what provides such features as time-travel debugging that you may have heard about. Redux does not actively enforce state immutability in its store or reducers, that responsibility falls on the programmer. Fortunately, JavaScript (especially ES6) provides several useful tools you can use to enforce the immutability of your state, whether it is a string, number, array, or object. Note that strings and numbers are primitive values and are immutable by nature. In other words, 3 is always 3. You cannot change the value of the number 3. An array or object, however, is mutable. In practice, your state will probably consist of an array or object, as these are useful data structures for representing many types of information. <br>--> One solution from ES6 to help enforce state immutability in Redux is the spread operator: `...`. The spread operator has a variety of applications, one of which is well-suited to the previous challenge of producing a new array from an existing array. This is relatively new, but commonly used syntax. It's important to note that it only makes a shallow copy of the array. That is to say, it only provides immutable array operations for one-dimensional arrays.

- **Redux store:** The Redux store is an object which holds and manages application state. There is a method called `createStore()` on the Redux object, which you use to create the Redux store. This method takes a reducer function as a required argument. The reducer function simply takes state as an argument and returns state. The Redux store object provides several methods that allow you to interact with it. For example, you can retrieve the current state held in the Redux store object with the `getState()` method. Another method you have access to on the Redux store object is `store.subscribe()`. This allows you to subscribe listener functions to the store, which are called whenever an action is dispatched against the store. One simple use for this method is to subscribe a function to your store that simply logs a message every time an action is received and the store is updated.

- **Redux action:** In Redux, all state updates are triggered by dispatching actions. An action is simply a JavaScript object that contains information about an action event that has occurred. Writing a Redux action is as simple as declaring an object with a type property. The Redux store receives these action objects, then updates its state accordingly. Sometimes a Redux action also carries some data. While the data is optional, actions must carry a `type` property that specifies the 'type' of action that occurred. Think of Redux actions as messengers that deliver information about events happening in your app to the Redux store. The store then conducts the business of updating state based on the action that occurred.

- **Action creator:** After creating an action, the next step is sending the action to the Redux store so it can update its state. In Redux, you define action creators to accomplish this. An action creator is simply a JavaScript function that returns an action. In other words, action creators create objects that represent action events.

- **Dispatch an action Event:** Dispatch method is what you use to dispatch actions to the Redux store. Calling `store.dispatch()` and passing the value returned from an action creator sends an action back to the store. Recall that action creators return an object with a type property that specifies the action that has occurred. Then the method dispatches an action object to the Redux store.

- **Reducer:** After an action is created and dispatched, the Redux store needs to know how to respond to that action. This is the job of a `reducer` function. Reducers in Redux are responsible for the state modifications that take place in response to actions. A `reducer` takes `state` and `action` as arguments, and it always returns a new `state`. It is important to see that this is the **only** role of the reducer. It has no side effects — it never calls an API endpoint and it never has any hidden surprises. The reducer is simply a pure function that takes state and action, then returns new state.

- **Asynchronous Requests:** Redux provides middleware designed specifically for this purpose, called Redux Thunk middleware. To include Redux Thunk middleware, you pass it as an argument to `Redux.applyMiddleware()`. This statement is then provided as a second optional parameter to the `createStore()` function. Then, to create an asynchronous action, you return a function in the action creator that takes `dispatch` as an argument. Within this function, you can dispatch actions and perform asynchronous requests. It's common to dispatch an action before initiating any asynchronous behavior so that your application state knows that some data is being requested (this state could display a loading icon, for instance). Then, once you receive the data, you dispatch another action which carries the data as a payload along with information that the action is completed.

- Check:
  - https://scotch.io/bar-talk/getting-started-with-redux-an-intro
  - https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-redux-pure-and-impure-functions
