**D3.js**, or **D3**, stands for Data Driven Documents. D3 is a JavaScript library to create dynamic and interactive data visualizations in the browser. It's built to work with common web standards, namely HTML, CSS, and Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG).

D3 takes input data and maps it into a visual representation of that data. It supports many different data formats. D3 lets you bind (or attach) the data to the Document Object Model (DOM). You use HTML or SVG elements with D3's built-in methods to transform the data into a visualization.

D3 gives you a lot of control over the presentation of data.

**Methods**

D3 allows you to chain several methods together with periods to perform a number of actions in a row.

- **select**: The `select()` method selects one element from the document. It takes an argument for the name of the element you want and returns an HTML node for the first element in the document that matches the name. D3 also has the `selectAll()` method to select a group of elements. It returns an array of HTML nodes for all the items in the document that match the input string.

- **append**: The `append()` method takes an argument for the element you want to add to the document. It appends an HTML node to a selected item, and returns a handle to that node.

- **text**: The `text()` method either sets the text of the selected node, or gets the current text. To set the value, you pass a string or a callback function as an argument inside the parentheses of the method.

- **style**: D3 lets you add inline CSS styles on dynamic elements with the `style()` method. It takes a comma-separated key-value pair as an argument. As well, You can use a callback function in the `style()` method to change the styling for different elements.

- **attr**: D3 has the `attr()` method to add any HTML attribute to an element, including a class name. The `attr()` method works the same way that `style()` does. It takes comma-separated values, and can use a callback function. The callback function takes two arguments, one for the data point itself (usually `d`) and one for the index of the data point in the array. The second argument for the index is optional. It's important to note that you do NOT need to write a `for` loop or use `forEach()` to iterate over the items in the data set. Recall that the `data()` method parses the data set, and any method that's chained after `data()` is run once for each item in the data set.

- **data**: See below

- **enter**: See below

**Working with Data**

The D3 library focuses on a data-driven approach. When you have a set of data, you can apply D3 methods to display it on the page. The first step is to make D3 aware of the data.

The `data()` method is used on a selection of DOM elements to attach the data to those elements. The data set is passed as an argument to the method.

A common workflow pattern is to create a new element in the document for each piece of data in the set. D3 has the `enter()` method for this purpose.

When `enter()` is combined with the `data()` method, it looks at the selected elements from the page and compares them to the number of data items in the set. If there are fewer elements than data items, it creates the missing elements.

To create a **bar chart**:
  - Create a `div` for each data point in the array
  - Give each `div` a dynamic height, using a callback function in the `style()` method that sets height equal to the data value.

**SVG**: SVG stands for `Scalable Vector Graphics`. SVG is used to make common geometric shapes. Since D3 maps data into a visual representation, it uses SVG to create the shapes for the visualization. SVG shapes for a web page must go within an HTML `svg` tag. CSS can be scalable when styles use relative units (such as `vh`, `vw`, or percentages), but using SVG is more flexible to build data visualizations. There are a number of supported shapes in SVG, such as rectangles and circles. They are used to display data.
- `rect` **Element:** For example, a rectangle (`<rect>`) SVG shape could create a bar in a bar chart. When you place a shape into the svg area, you can specify where it goes with `x` and `y` coordinates. The origin point of (0, 0) is in the upper-left corner. Positive values for `x` push the shape to the right, and positive values for `y` push the shape down from the origin point.
An SVG `rect` has four attributes. There are the `x` and `y` coordinates for where it is placed in the `svg` area. It also has a `height` and `width` to specify the size.<br>
<br>To create and append a rectangle for each point in a `dataset` is quite similar as appending a `div` for each point in a `dataset` using `data()`, `enter` and `append()`. There are a few differences working with `rect` elements instead of `divs`. The `rects` must be appended to an `svg` element, not directly to the `body`. Also, you need to tell D3 where to place each `rect` within the `svg` area.<br>
<br>To make the bars right-side-up, you need to change the way the `y` coordinate is calculated. It needs to account for both the height of the bar and the total height of the SVG area.
The height of the SVG area is 100. If you have a data point of 0 in the set, you would want the bar to start at the bottom of the SVG area (not the top). To do this, the `y` coordinate needs a value of 100. If the data point value were 1, you would start with a `y` coordinate of 100 to set the bar at the bottom. Then you need to account for the height of the bar of 1, so the final `y` coordinate would be 99.<br>
The `y` coordinate that is `y = heightOfSVG - heightOfBar` would place the bars right-side-up.<br>
SVG has a way to change the color of the bars.
In SVG, a `rect` shape is colored with the `fill` attribute. It supports hex codes, color names, and rgb values, as well as more complex options like gradients and transparency.

- `circle` **Element:** SVG has a `circle` tag to create the circle shape. It works a lot like the `rect` elements used for the bar chart. A `circle` in SVG has three main attributes. The `cx` and `cy` attributes are the coordinates. They tell D3 where to position the center of the shape on the SVG canvas. The radius (`r` attribute) gives the size of the `circle`. Just like the `rect y` coordinate, the `cy` attribute for a `circle` is measured from the top of the SVG canvas, not from the bottom. All three attributes can use a callback function to set their values dynamically.

- `text` **Element:** D3 lets you label a graph element, such as a bar, using the SVG text element. Like the rect element, a text element needs to have x and y attributes, to place it on the SVG canvas. It also needs to access the data to display those values. The `fill` attribute sets the color of the text for a `text` node.

- `title` **Element:** A tooltip shows more information about an item on a page when the user hovers over that item. There are several ways to add a tooltip to a visualization, on of them is the SVG `title` element. `title` pairs with the `text()` method to dynamically add data to the bars.


**Scales:** `Scales` are functions that tell the program how to map a set of raw data points onto the pixels of the SVG canvas. D3 has several scale types. For a linear scale (usually used with quantitative data), there is the D3 method `scaleLinear()`. By default, scales use the identity relationship - the input value maps to the output value. But scales can be much more flexible and interesting. Say a data set has values ranging from 50 to 480. This is the input information for a scale, and is also known as the **domain**. You want to map those points along the x axis on the SVG canvas, between 10 units and 500 units. This is the output information, which is also known as the **range**. The `domain()` and `range()` methods set these values for the scale. Both methods take an array of at least two elements as an argument. Notice that the scale uses the linear relationship between the domain and range values to figure out what the output should be for a given number.
The D3 methods `domain()` and `range()` set that information for your scale based on the data. There are a couple methods to make that easier.
Often when you set the domain, you'll want to use the minimum and maximum values within the data set. Trying to find these values manually, especially in a large data set, may cause errors.
D3 has two methods - `min()` and `max()` to return this information. A dataset may have nested arrays, like the [x, y] coordinate pairs that were in the scatter plot example. In that case, you need to tell D3 how to calculate the maximum and minimum.
Fortunately, both the `min()` and `max()` methods take a callback function.
